In this video we're going to have our play a moving left and right based upon keyboard input.
And although it doesn't look very spiffy yet it's the foundation it's the starting point for our character
doing awesome things in our game.
Let's have a look at what we need to do.
Here we first of all need a way for our player to be moving left or right.
That requires us to add a script and to put some movement information within that script and from an
architecture point of view.
Are we looking to have just one class that is Player class that does everything to do with the player.
Or should we have a player movement CLASS AT PLAY A Death Class A play a level of class so that we have
them separated out at this point we don't know.
So if you're working on your game and you're in the early stages it's in a way safer to have it just
as player and not to get sidetracked or go down the rabbit hole of trying to figure everything out now
so that when we do get to the point of our play a class gets too large or too too difficult to work
in.
Then we can split it out into more manageable classes and individual scripts.
So I'll jump over to add component and I will type in here player and a new script and create an add
that and I'd like to anchor something really tightly here just in case it hasn't been anchored for you.
This is a real beginner key point that I'll point out here but really it's to be clear that when we
create the player script you can see over here it creates the Player class.
So when we talk about adding a script and adding in class we often do that interchangeably because it's
doing the same thing.
New script means new class but we need to be paying attention to these classes because we'll be doing
a lot of classes speaking to other classes or accessing methods from other classes throughout this section.
So sort of make it super clear that we are now creating a player class and anything that is within the
script will be part of this player class.
If you look at this and you say yep I know how to move my player left or right I've got this in the
bag then post a video now and go ahead and do that yourself and come up with a solution that you think
works well even if it's not matching the solution I show you when you come back it is excellent.
You've gone through that process if you want some clues let me give you some clues now for the challenge
of moving your player at any point.
If you think you've got it impose a video and jump in and do the challenge first thing we need to do
is import the cross platform in's input asset package because Will you be using that to move our player
left or right.
And if you're using a different version of unity to the one I'm using in particular a later newer version
then you might not find the cross platform input manager here you'll need to go to the unity asset store
and download the cross platform input manager from the "Unity Standard Assets". I've given you a link against
this lecture where you can go and find that and import it just as you would any other asset pack.
The next step is to create a method.
I'm going to call the run method which is called in update.
So each frame it is calling run and knows what's going on.
And within that we will be using my rigid body dot velocity to move your player.
So we're moving the rigid body of the player.
We also need to serialize a run speed variable so that we have control over the player speed.
If you look at this and say this is so simple then.
Excellent good work.
Jump in and do that now if you look and say I've got no idea.
Excellent as well.
Jump in and give it your best shot and I'll see you back here when you've given it your best shot.
Right.
So first thing for me to do here is jump over to assets import package cross platform import.
This will take a moment to import and pause the video now now be back in a second after it is imported
all of this.
Okay.
Mission accomplished.
I'm going to go to standard assets that's been brought in and I'm going to grab my 2D extras master
and just drop that in a standard assets as well to tidied up a little bit to get it out of the way.
I think it's pretty much a standard asset.
I'm also going to create a folder for my scripts.
Let's call these groups to keep everything nice and tidy that'll get pretty full by the end of this
project.
So exciting now that we have access to our cross platform input.
Let's go and have a look at what's going on there.
Jump up to edit projects settings input and we can see our axes.
We need to pay attention that we want to move along the horizontal.
So the name of horizontal is horizontal.
Good for us Dan Oakes.
We have to put that in as a string and then when it comes to moving that we've got the A button in the
D button.
And I believe also the left and the right.
And if you remember from our going to salt we have a sensitivity setting that says how quickly we reached
the maximum left or maximum right settings on this on the horizontal so maximum negative one all the
way up to maximum positive one if the sensitivity is low it will take longer if it's very high it'll
be a lot quicker.
So it's good for us to remember in terms of the speed that our character moves is in a tuning we can
do in there to say how responsive our character is going to feel.
Okay back over to our script now that we've had a look at that we need to start off by using the
UnityStandardAssets.CrossPlatformInput.
Next we need to add our run methods so void run tab and you can see it's auto filled in private here.
That's because if you go Tools Options and tools for unity you'll see that appear unity message scope
is private.
So whenever we type this method and it auto completes it adds private in there.
If I wanted to remove that I would put default and if I just type void then I would reset and there
should be run.
Then it would add it wouldn't add the private in there if I change it to public.
Then it would put in public.
Let me just changes to run and because it supposed to be run not reset.
OK good.
And so I'm gonna leave this in here and make a habit in this section of the course to always say whether
it is private or public for our methods because we'll be doing a lot of that.
Public private can we use it from this class or another class and how do we access other classes throughout
this section so to make that really explicit by leaving private in that case.
Next what do we need to do.
What we need to get the access the horizontal axis from the cross platform input manager and create
some way to store that so we'll create a float which will call control through very similar to argon
assault control throw the throw means throwing from left or right.
In this instance and it will be cross platform input manager dot get access and what is the axis the
axis is horizontal are horizontal horizontal.
And this value is going to be I'll just make a quick note in here it's going to be from minus one to
plus one.
Sorry the value is between is between minus 1 and plus 1.
Just so that we're really clear on that when we're doing other calculations.
Next we need to create a vector to add in the section it's going to be all about vector 2s if you're
in the habit of typing vector 3 My take like me you might take a few moments to just get your brain
into vector 2s and we'll call this player velocity player velocity is the player moving around what
will this be well we'll create a new vector 2 and then what are we looking for in here let's have a
look at the parameters float x and float y so the float x we will say for now is just the control throw
so this is what we've been grabbing up in here this is gonna be from minus one to plus one.
So we're gonna need to put a modifier on that because that's probably not going to be fast enough but
for now we'll leave it at that and then on the y axis while the y axis we don't want to change we just
want to say keep the y axis doing whatever the y axis is doing and not reset it to zero if we put in
zero then it's going to have to play a stop on the on the y axis.
So for here we need to go and get what is going on with the players rigid body so we'll jump up this
top here and make a reference to this we will say my rigid sorry it was a rigid body rigid body 2D is
my rigid body and then in start we will get that will say my rigid body equals get component and what
type is this it's a rigid body to day so if cashed it and we have got it and we have forgotten how parentheses.
So now back in our run method under the X we have control through throw and Y will be my rigid body
dot velocity dot y.
So basically saying whatever your current velocity is then that is your kind of velocity and then as
a final point we'll say my rigid body dot velocity equals.
So the overall speed of the player the arrow velocity of the player the player's rigid body is going
to be this player velocity that we've just defined above.
Player velocity okay.
So this is us saying get the axis.
It's on the horizontal axis.
Create a vector to which is player velocity and that will be our X and our y control throw.
And the current y velocity and then the velocity of the rigid body is the player velocity.
We could combine these two lines and have them all together.
As you know but we've split them out just to make it as readable as possible.
Again this will be an ongoing conversation in this section when you keep them together when you split
them out.
When you have two lines when you have three lines we'll show you a way that is favoring readability.
That's usually the mantra.
If it's more readable then it's gonna be better when we come back to try to figure out what's going
on here.
So that's why we've got these three lines here but we could do it as well in two lines.
Let's save that and have a look at what we've got in here.
We'll jump back into our scene.
Click on play see if we've got any errors open up our console and if we hit left and right nothing happening
here.
Let's go and figure out why that's the case because in update we're yet to say run so run needs to be
called so each frame we are running left.
Slide slide slide writes line slide slides says a couple of things in here we do have it moving.
That's really cool.
Couple of things are going wrong is going way too slow.
So as I said two in the challenge let's go and create ourselves a serialized field up here a variable
serialized field the variable will be and float.
We'll call this run speed and we'll initialize that and we'll say 5.
Not sure what it should be we'll start off with five run speed and then we come back down in here into
the plane's velocity on this x axis instead of it just being control 3 which is minus one to plus 1.
Let's multiply that by our run speed.
So it's now gonna be from minus five to plus five back into the game.
Click on play
go play
and it's a bit faster which is cool and we can see that on our player we have the ability to increase
that if we make it 10.
How fast is the play go.
Zing zing conical blip and drops down with a little bit of the gravity there.
The other thing that I'm going to do here is jump back over into edit project settings input and change
the sensitivity.
Let's change these to ten and see what impact that has on our players speed.
So basically it should be quicker ramp up time.
I'm gonna make that even higher I'm gonna make it 20.
I'd like to have it really responsive.
So it's basically it's immediately saying I'm moving I'm not moving we'll see what happens if we put
it to 50 boink boink I guess that should be pretty immediate.
So that's our plan moving left and right.
The animation doesn't change yet and the character's not flipping so we have some things to do.
Coming to make it look correct.
But for now we've got some moving great work.
I'll see you in the next video.